README.md, before:

<!-- Title -->
<h1 align="center">
  prisma-relay-cursor-connection
</h1>

<!-- Description -->
<h4 align="center">
  Extend <a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Prisma's</a> <code>findMany</code> method to support <a href="https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm">Relay Cursor Connections</a>
</h4>

<!-- Badges -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection?style=flat-square"
      alt="Package Version"
    />
  </a>

  <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/actions?query=branch%3Amaster+workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/Continuous%20Integration?style=flat-square"
      alt="Build Status"
    />
  </a>

  <a href="https://codecov.io/github/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/master?style=flat-square"
      alt="Code Coverage"
    />
  </a>
</p>

<!-- Quicklinks -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#usage">Usage</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#contributors">Contributors</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

<br>

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection
```

This module has a peer dependency on `@prisma/client` version `^2.0.0 || ^3.0.0`.

## Usage

### General Usage

This module validates the connection arguments to make sure they work with Prisma. The following
combinations are supported:

- `{}` All resources
- `{ first: number }` The first X resources
- `{ first: number, after: string }` The first X resources after the id Y
- `{ last: number }` The last X resources
- `{ last: number, before: string }` The last X resources before the id Y

Two cases need to be checked in your code if you are passing in user-provided data to prevent the
user from reading out too many resources at once:

- One of `first` | `last` has to be defined
- `first` | `last` have to be below a reasonable maximum (e.g. 100)

```ts
import {
  findManyCursorConnection,
  ConnectionArguments,
} from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: '5c11e0fa-fd6b-44ee-9016-0809ee2f2b9a' } // typeof ConnectionArguments
)
```

### Type-Safe Arguments

You can also use additional `FindManyArgs` while keeping type safety intact:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const baseArgs = {
  select: { id: true, isCompleted: true },
  where: { isCompleted: true },
}

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany({ ...args, ...baseArgs }),
  () => client.todo.count({ where: baseArgs.where }),
  { last: 5, before: '5c11e0fa-fd6b-44ee-9016-0809ee2f2b9a' }
)

// Type error: Property text does not exist
result.edges[0].node.text
```

### Custom Cursors

By default, the cursor is the `id` field of your model. If you would like to use a different field,
a compound index, or handle encoding/decoding, you can pass the following options:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: 'eyJpZCI6MTZ9' },
  {
    getCursor: (record) => ({ id: record.id }),
    encodeCursor: (cursor) => Buffer.from(JSON.stringify(cursor)).toString('base64'),
    decodeCursor: (cursor) => JSON.parse(Buffer.from(cursor, 'base64').toString('ascii')),
  }
)
```

You can find more examples for custom cursors in the [unit tests](./tests/index.spec.ts).

### Custom Edges & Nodes

By default, the edge consists of the `cursor` and the `node`. If you would like to add additional
fields to the edge or the node, you can pass the following option:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection<
  Todo,
  { id: string },
  Todo & { extraNodeField: string },
  { extraEdgeField: string; cursor: string; node: Todo & { extraNodeField: string } }
>(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: 'eyJpZCI6MTZ9' },
  {
    recordToEdge: (record) => ({
      node: { ...record, extraNodeField: 'Foo' },
      extraEdgeField: 'Bar',
    }),
  }
)
```

### Pagination with Page Cursors

Cursor based pagination is effective when working with an infinite list, but when you want to present a list of pagination buttons it can be hard to provide that user-interface without a lot of additional work. The folks at Artsy came up with a schema extension and technique for pagination with page links [via `pageCursors`](](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2020/01/21/graphql-relay-windowed-pagination/), this is implemented in `findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors`.

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
)

result.pageCursors
// { around: [{ cursor: "ArXdF...", isCurrent: true, page: 1 }, { cursor: "ArXdF...", isCurrent: false, page: 2 }]}
```


## Contributing

```bash
# Setup the test database
yarn prisma migrate dev --preview-feature

# Run the tests
yarn test
```

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.david-reess.de"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4615516?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>David Reeß</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://twitter.com/controlplusb"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/12164768?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Sean Matheson</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ctrlplusb" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ctrlplusb" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://marcjulian.de/?ref=github"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/8985933?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Marc</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=marcjulian" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://jeongsd.dev"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/7903426?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Jeong Seong Dae</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=jeongsd" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=jeongsd" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/ahmetuysal"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26417668?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Ahmet Uysal</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ahmetuysal" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ahmetuysal" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/nicksrandall"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1800460?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Nick Randall</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=nicksrandall" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/igo"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/55597?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Igor Urminček</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=igo" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Wrap up the page cursors

README.md, after:

<!-- Title -->
<h1 align="center">
  prisma-relay-cursor-connection
</h1>

<!-- Description -->
<h4 align="center">
  Extend <a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Prisma's</a> <code>findMany</code> method to support <a href="https://relay.dev/graphql/connections.htm">Relay Cursor Connections</a>
</h4>

<!-- Badges -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection?style=flat-square"
      alt="Package Version"
    />
  </a>

  <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/actions?query=branch%3Amaster+workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/Continuous%20Integration?style=flat-square"
      alt="Build Status"
    />
  </a>

  <a href="https://codecov.io/github/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection">
    <img
      src="https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/master?style=flat-square"
      alt="Code Coverage"
    />
  </a>
</p>

<!-- Quicklinks -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a> •
  <a href="#usage">Usage</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#contributors">Contributors</a> •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

<br>

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection
```

This module has a peer dependency on `@prisma/client` version `^2.0.0 || ^3.0.0`.

## Usage

### General Usage

This module validates the connection arguments to make sure they work with Prisma. The following
combinations are supported:

- `{}` All resources
- `{ first: number }` The first X resources
- `{ first: number, after: string }` The first X resources after the id Y
- `{ last: number }` The last X resources
- `{ last: number, before: string }` The last X resources before the id Y

Two cases need to be checked in your code if you are passing in user-provided data to prevent the
user from reading out too many resources at once:

- One of `first` | `last` has to be defined
- `first` | `last` have to be below a reasonable maximum (e.g. 100)

```ts
import {
  findManyCursorConnection,
  ConnectionArguments,
} from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: '5c11e0fa-fd6b-44ee-9016-0809ee2f2b9a' } // typeof ConnectionArguments
)
```

### Type-Safe Arguments

You can also use additional `FindManyArgs` while keeping type safety intact:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const baseArgs = {
  select: { id: true, isCompleted: true },
  where: { isCompleted: true },
}

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany({ ...args, ...baseArgs }),
  () => client.todo.count({ where: baseArgs.where }),
  { last: 5, before: '5c11e0fa-fd6b-44ee-9016-0809ee2f2b9a' }
)

// Type error: Property text does not exist
result.edges[0].node.text
```

### Custom Cursors

By default, the cursor is the `id` field of your model. If you would like to use a different field,
a compound index, or handle encoding/decoding, you can pass the following options:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: 'eyJpZCI6MTZ9' },
  {
    getCursor: (record) => ({ id: record.id }),
    encodeCursor: (cursor) => Buffer.from(JSON.stringify(cursor)).toString('base64'),
    decodeCursor: (cursor) => JSON.parse(Buffer.from(cursor, 'base64').toString('ascii')),
  }
)
```

You can find more examples for custom cursors in the [unit tests](./tests/index.spec.ts).

### Custom Edges & Nodes

By default, the edge consists of the `cursor` and the `node`. If you would like to add additional
fields to the edge or the node, you can pass the following option:

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnection } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnection<
  Todo,
  { id: string },
  Todo & { extraNodeField: string },
  { extraEdgeField: string; cursor: string; node: Todo & { extraNodeField: string } }
>(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
  { first: 5, after: 'eyJpZCI6MTZ9' },
  {
    recordToEdge: (record) => ({
      node: { ...record, extraNodeField: 'Foo' },
      extraEdgeField: 'Bar',
    }),
  }
)
```

### Pagination with Page Cursors

Cursor based pagination is effective when working with an infinite list, but when you want to present a list of pagination buttons it can be hard to provide that user-interface without a lot of additional work. The folks at Artsy came up with a schema extension and technique for pagination with page links [via `pageCursors`](](https://artsy.github.io/blog/2020/01/21/graphql-relay-windowed-pagination/), this is implemented in `findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors`.

```ts
import { findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors } from '@devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection'

const result = await findManyCursorConnectionWithPageCursors(
  (args) => client.todo.findMany(args),
  () => client.todo.count(),
)

result.pageCursors
// { around: [{ cursor: "ArXdF...", isCurrent: true, page: 1 }, { cursor: "ArXdF...", isCurrent: false, page: 2 }]}
```

When working with page cursors, your prisma models _must_ have an `id String  @id @default(cuid())` . This shouldn't be too much of a constraint, as you will likely be using this for the [Object Identification pattern](https://relay.dev/graphql/objectidentification.htm).


## Contributing

```bash
# Setup the test database
yarn prisma migrate dev --preview-feature

# Run the tests
yarn test
```

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.david-reess.de"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4615516?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>David Reeß</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=queicherius" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://twitter.com/controlplusb"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/12164768?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Sean Matheson</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ctrlplusb" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ctrlplusb" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://marcjulian.de/?ref=github"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/8985933?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Marc</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=marcjulian" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://jeongsd.dev"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/7903426?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Jeong Seong Dae</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=jeongsd" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=jeongsd" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/ahmetuysal"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26417668?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Ahmet Uysal</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ahmetuysal" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=ahmetuysal" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/nicksrandall"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1800460?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Nick Randall</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=nicksrandall" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/igo"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/55597?v=4?s=75" width="75px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Igor Urminček</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/devoxa/prisma-relay-cursor-connection/commits?author=igo" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## License

MIT
